---
layout: post
title: >
    Sick
permalink: /2008/11/27/sick/
---
Bleugh. I seem to have caught whatever bug has been going round the office, so I've spent the last couple of days on the sofa napping, watching terrible television and making wimpy wailing noises even though there's nobody around to listen.

I'm sure being ill used to be more fun, but in recent years they've completely ruined daytime television. This morning BBC1 had "Homes Under the Hammer", then "Buy It, Sell It, Bank It?", then "Bargain Hunt", and finally "Cash in the Attic". Four titles lasting three hours, but essentially all the same programme. I'm not saying Kilroy and Wipeout were pinnacles of broadcasting achievement but compared to what passes for daytime TV now they deserve Oscars.

Even Working Lunch, which used to be the highlight of a day off for me, has been ruined by the recent changes they've made to the format, the studio and the presenters. I used to quite enjoy the amiable amateurishness of it all, but now they've basically turned it into the One Show. Even worse they've got rid of the fish-themed set and title sequence. Now admittedly that never seemed to make a whole lot of sense for a business news programme, but at least it had character - something that seems to have gone out the window in the latest revamp.

A door to door seller/scammer knocked earlier. He was dressed in a white boiler suit for some reason, and instead of launching into a sales pitch, he asked me if my parents were in. No, you did read that correctly. He asked me if my fucking parents were in! I'm not sure when the last time that happened was but it was probably some time in the early 1990's. I'm clearly so ill I've now taken on the appearance of a 12 year old. I closed the door in his face and he then started shouting something before moving on to harrass my neighbours instead.

That was the most interesting thing to happen today. I think I would have preferred going to work.