---
layout: post
title: Reinventing text adventure games for the modern web
permalink: /2011/09/05/reinventing-text-adventure-games-for-the-modern-web/
source: gamasutra
sourceUrl: http://www.gamasutra.com/blogs/AlexWarren/20110905/90126/Reinventing_text_adventure_games_for_the_modern_web.php
---

<p>Ah, text adventures. "You are in a mazy of twisty passages". "You are likely to be eaten by a grue". "That's not a verb I recognise". "I don't know the word 'help'". Oh, text adventures. You entertained and frustrated a generation, then graphics came along, and then we forgot all about you.<br /><br />But text adventures didn't die, they just went underground. They weren't on the shelves any more, but a community kept them alive, making new games, creating tools, and hosting competitions. Meanwhile the rest of the world moved on to games with ever more impressive graphics.<br /><br />In recent years though, I think we have seen a shift in attitudes towards gaming. Whether it's sneaking into the toilet to play Angry Birds on your smartphone at work, or being dragged into a game of Dance Central on the Kinect at a housewarming party, games are increasingly part of everyday life for ordinary people - it's not all about the latest graphics, speed, explosions and things to impress teenage boys any more. More people are playing more types of games, on more devices, more often.<br /><br />This is why I believe that now is the right time to revisit the text adventure. It doesn't have to look the same as it did in the early 1980's - the modern text adventure can be more visually appealing for one thing, and include pictures, sound and even video, and it should all be delivered through the web browser. With <a href="/2011/07/11/eliminating-guess-the-verb/">the use of hyperlinks</a>, we can reduce the need for typing and the unintentional "guess the verb" puzzles which have traditionally plagued this type of game.<br /><br />That was the vision which inspired me to quit my job, and spend the last few months working full-time on an open source rewrite of my <a href="http://www.textadventures.co.uk/quest/">text adventure game system, Quest</a>.<br /><br />The goal of Quest is to reimagine text adventures for the modern web, by making them easy to create and share. There is a point and click editor, which means you can create games with no programming experience, but behind the scenes there is a full programming language for power when you need it. Quest is <a href="http://quest.codeplex.com">open source</a> and licenced under Ms-PL, an MIT-like licence which means it can be used even in closed source games and applications.<br /><br />I believe this can be a new beginning for text adventure games. I think there is an untapped potential for this type of gaming, particularly within education - a subject I hope to return to in a later blog post.<br /><br />For now, I would love to get any feedback on Quest and to hear if anybody has any further ideas for reviving this almost forgotten genre!</p>